hello everyone welcome to the next
lecture in theory of computation and in
this lecture we will be seeing some more
examples of NFA and see how to design
nfas all right so let's get started all
right so here's we have an example L is
a language which is a set of all string
set starts with zero so our task is to
design an NFA which accepts the set of
all strings that starts with zero so if
you recall you may know that we have
designed the same thing using DFA in our
previous lectures so in this lecture we
will be trying to design those same
examples using NFA all right so let's
see how we can do this so before
starting what will be the set of all
strings that starts with zero what will
be the elements in this set the elements
would be like 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 and so on
it is an infinite set right now let's
see how we can design the NFA as usual
we always start with the starting State
let me call it State a a is my starting
State I will represent it using this
Arrow which means it is the starting
State
and I need to send it to the next state
which I will call State
B on
getting
input zero when getting input zero I
send it to State B and my only condition
is that it should start with zero so
start a a is the starting State and the
first input is zero so if the first
input is zero I go to the next state B
and B should be my final state so I'll
put a double circle around it why
because I just want the string to start
with a and after that I don't care what
it is in B whatever you get 0 or 1 let
it stay in B itself all right
so here I have completed my NFA is it
complete if it was DFA we could have
seen that it is not complete because we
did not mention what happens to a if it
gets input one but here I did not
mention it why because this is an NFA
and in NFA it does not matter even if
you don't mention that this is a
complete NFA now let us take a few
examples and
see what
happens let me try to pass a few strings
let me say I'll pass this string
01 so as usual I should always start
with the starting state which is my
state a and a on getting input zero
where does it go it goes to State
B it goes to State B and what is my next
input my next input is again zero so B
on getting input zero where does it go
it go to it goes to B itself goes to B
itself and what is my next input my next
input is one and when one uh b gets
input one where does it go it goes to B
itself and now I have reached the end of
the string and at the end of the string
where where am I I am in state B and is
State B the final State yes it is the
final state so this string is accepted
all right now let's take another
example in this example let me test for
the string
one1 so I start always with my starting
state which is a and a on getting input
one where does it go on getting input
one a does not have a place to go so it
goes to five I will represented it by F
A does not have a place to go it does
not go anywhere so this kind of
configuration where a state does not go
anywhere that is known as a dead
configuration
dead
configuration right okay but in case of
DFA we did not have a dead configuration
if we leave a DFA like this this is
incomplete we have to mention where a
goes even if it gets input one so let me
just convert this into a DFA if I was if
I were to convert it to a DFA I would
send it to another state called State C
on getting input one and after coming to
State C it stays in state C whether it
gets input zero or one so from the state
C if a string comes to the state C it
does not have any way of going back to
this this final State be anymore so in
case of our DFA this state was known as
the de State or the Trap State dead
state
or trap state but in case of NFA we
don't need to mention this dead state or
trap State we just leave
a d NFA blank just like this and this
shows that it is a debt configuration
and it is a complete NFA so this is how
to design a NFA for the set of all
strings that starts with
zero okay now let's see another example
construct NFA that accepts sets of all
strings over 01 of length two so if you
remember we have done this same thing
for DFA as well so let us see how to
construct the NFA for this so before
starting here our input symbols are 0
and one and our language what will be
the sets of elements in our language it
is the sets of all strings over 01 of
length two so what will be the sets of
all strings of length two over 0 1 they
will be 0 0 0 1 1 0 and 1
one okay now let's see how to construct
the NFA for this it is very simple first
we have I start with my starting state
which is State a and then a on getting
input either zero or or one either zero
or one I send it to State B and at this
point what is the length of my string
the length of my string is one right I
just got one input now on getting the
next input whether it is 0 or 1 I send
it to the next state which I will call
State C and at this point what is the
length of my string the length of my
string is two I got my first input here
second input here so the length of my
string is two so this C should be my
final state or accepting state right so
this is it this NFA is complete so if it
was a DFA I should have sent it to
another state here which will be a trap
state or a dead State on getting a next
input on state C but in NFA I don't need
to do it I just leave it like this
showing that this is a that
configuration means whatever I get after
this state see it does not go anywhere
so that will be rejected so let us just
uh take two examples quickly and see how
does this work so let me first check for
this string 0 0 it should be accepted so
let's see it starts from State
a on getting input zero where does it go
it goes to State
B and on getting input zero again this
is the second input I'm in state B and
I'm getting input zero where does it go
it goes to State C and now I re the end
of the string and where am I I am in
state C and is C the final State yes so
this is accepted okay so now let's take
another example in this example I will
take the string 0 01 now should this be
accepted this should not be accepted why
because the length of this string is 1 2
3 and my NFA should only accept strings
of length two so let's see whether this
will be accepted or not I start with my
starting State a and the first input I
get is zero so on getting input zero
where does a go a goes to B and what is
my next input my next input is zero so
on getting this zero I'm in state B and
on getting this zero where does B go B
goes to State C and now I have the next
input one and C on getting input one
where does it go see on getting input
one it has no place to go it does not go
anywhere so we represented it with five
means see does not go anywhere so at the
end I am at five so this string is not
accepted all right
so those were the examples of how to
design to a simple NFS and I hope it was
clear to you so thank you for watching
and see you in the next lecture where we
will be seeing more examples
[Music]